---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/1/
type: stop
section_title: Claude Martin Museum
title: Boulone-Lise And James Martin
page_rank: 1
stop_id: 1
audio_file: 
hero_images:
 - path: boulone-lise-and-james-001.jpg
   alt_text: Boulone-Lise And James Martin
---
<div style="text-align: justify">
The painting was commissioned by Martin in 1786-87 and depicts Martin's favourite companion, Boulone-Lise (Gori Bibi) and her adopted son James Martin (Zulphiqar). 
</div>
<br />
<div style="text-align: justify">
Boulone-Lise (Gori Bibi) was descended from Nawab Fazal Khan Bahadur, the Prime Minister of the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, in 1766. She entered the household of Martin in 1775 when she was about nine years old. Claude Martin wrote lovingly and respectfully about her in his Will, making provisions for her care after his death. He even provided for the construction of her tomb at La Martiniere.
</div>
<br />
<div style="text-align: justify">
James Martin (Zulphiqar) was adopted by Claude Martin for Boulone and brought up by her. Claude Martin had 'purchased' James from a Georgian who was willing to acquire oney to return home. Later, he was made the Manager of Martin's properties and carried on as a successful auctioneer in both Calcutta and Lucknow.
</div>
<br />
<div style="text-align: justify">
The figures in the painting stand beneath a tree, with a broad vista extending to the right of the picture. They are fishing in a pool of gold and silver fishes, a traditional English country pursuit. Boulone holds the rod while James looks up at her. She leans against a classical column topped with an urn embellished with Martin's profile. Boulone is dressed in silver coloured peshwaz with red borders and a brown dupatta around her shoulders, and wears a rich array of jewellery. Her gown is parted just below the waist and her pyjama clad legs are clearly visible.
</div>
<br />

## Artist

Johan Zoffany (1733 - 1810)

## Date of painting

1788-1787

## Dimensions

* Height: 61 cm
* Width: 76 cm

## Medium

Oil Paint on Canvas

<br />
<br />
<br />

### Museum Tour Guide Website Created by
##### Usama Ghufran [@usama_](https://www.instagram.com/usama_)
##### Martin House - 2011 Batch

