---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/6/
type: stop
section_title: Claude Martin Museum
title: Cock Fight
page_rank: 6
stop_id: 6
audio_file: 
hero_images:
 - path: cock-fight-001.jpg
---

## Version 6 - (Colonel Mordaunt, Company School Patna)
<div style="text-align: justify">
The painting is by an artist of the Patna School based upon a mezzotint done by Richard Earlom Col. Mordaunt's Cockfight. There are some modifications. The artist has replaced Zoffany's original outdoor scene of an awning and trees with the façade of a colonial-style building. He has reversed and focused the scene of the cockfight, centring on the confrontation between Colonel John Mordaunt and Nawab Asaf al-Daula.
</div>
<br />

## Version 6.1 - (Colonel Mordaunt, Mezzotint)
<div style="text-align: justify">
'Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Match' is hand-coloured mezzotint print by Richard Earlom (1743-1822) after Johann Zoffany, R.A. It depicts a cock fight at Lucknow in the province of Oudh in the year 1786, at which were present several distinguished personages.
</div>
<br />

## Version 6.2- (Daylesford, Zoffany)
<div style="text-align: justify">
A cock-fight of birds of Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula and Colonel John Mordaunt, HEICS. Around ninety figures can be identified. Claude Martin, in a red uniform, is seated on the settee. The picture Includes dancing girls, musicians, a water-carrier and an elephant in the distance. Zoffany, is in the background, in white evening wear.
</div>
<br />

## Version 6.3- (Ashwick, Zoffany)
<div style="text-align: justify">
This painting shows a cock-fight involving birds belonging to Asaf-ud-Daula, the Nawab Wazir of Awadh and Colonel John Mordaunt, of the British East India Company. Claude Martin, wearing a red uniform, is sitting on the white settee. There are at least two different versions of the painting of the cock match. The Ashwick version contains fewer background figures.
</div>
<br />


